---
title: Laitos on the Components of Forgiveness
introduction: Those of Laitos open the Fourth Channeling Intensive with a treatment of the concept and import of forgiveness. The means for forgiving others change with the details of the illusion, sometimes involving greater imagination and faith than one might expect. These lessons may then be directed within in order to realize a more holistic, balanced and integrated self than the identity we curate for the illusion, one that is redeemed in knowing and accepting its wholeness and goodness. As we learn to use the vehicle of our waking personality limber and adaptable enough to open the heart in unconditional love, we discover how forgiveness disciplines our personalities to accept what we come to learn about the third density condition within and without.
categories:
- Circles/The High Altitude Receiving Center (HARC) Circle
- Contacts/Laitos
- Events/Fourth Channeling Intensive
- Topics/Balancing
- Topics/Forgiveness
- Topics/Free Will
- Topics/Transformation
---

_(Steve channeling)_

**I am [Laitos]**[^1]. We greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. We are most honored to be with this circle of seeking, which is augmented by a new face, as _you_ might say, a new aura, as _we_ feel it to be. And we greet the one known as Nithin as a member of this circle. Most welcome you are, my friend, most welcome, as indeed we would extend our greeting of welcome both to the one known as Jeremy and this instrument, known as Steve.&nbsp;

We will begin by blending or energies with yours, and ask that you feel them moving from your right to your left describing a circle made up of the three who participate here upon your plane, and we who participate from planes which you might call above your own, but which we experience as being embedded within those which you more proximately enjoy. If you let these energies quietly, serenely move from one to another of these prospective instruments, who will together form a message which may reverberate in your language and the deeper sense within our souls--that is to say, the souls of all here who participate in these proceedings--as these energies move, we would ask that you reflect upon the way they move you and the small contribution which each of you makes to the movement of these energies. And as this process precedes, now a little bit more strongly, and a little bit more strongly yet, we would like to register to you our thanks and acknowledge that each here has made a commitment to a form of service which is not usual upon your planet. It is a service which requires a certain sacrifice from each.

Each here has gone to some trouble to be here, and we would point out that each has brought to this gathering a remembrance of catalyst that has served to disrupt the calmness of your spiritual process. This disruption has a potential to disrupt the smooth flow of these energies which we are now increasingly moment-by-moment in the process of sharing with one another. And we will confess that we do have a lingering tale of catalyst of our own dimension, of our own experiential nexus, that has unfolded prior to this gathering. And so all of us together have a strong commitment to be together and to blend our energies into one, and at the same time we all have that nagging little reservoir of resistance that we must contend with.

So our first request to you will be that you lay aside these feelings of being afflicted, these feelings of being distracted, these feelings that cause one a certain amount of hesitancy, and perhaps a certain amount of remorse, that one could not be quite what one would have wished to be. Let us all together here now forgive that portion of ourselves which has held back a little and allow it to do what it needs to do, while accepting that it is a part of a larger whole, the general trajectory of which is toward the very unification which we now seek together. Let us forgive all stray energies and focus instead on all the stronger energies of our central commitment, allowing what has strayed to feel the magnetic pull of that which is stronger. Yes, our disruptions may be forgiven, for they are part of a being which is on the whole holy, and wholly committed to this enterprise, which we now gladly share.

We have been asked to speak with you on the subject of forgiveness, which, as each here already well knows, is a deep and troubled issue, particularly in the experiential domain which you now occupy. For is it not true that life lived within the strictures of the veil is a life that seems to be, in many cases, only partially revealed to itself? And one may not be entirely clear about where one stands when one finds that there is something in one's life that cries out for forgiveness. One knows well enough, perhaps, that to refuse to forgive is to carry a burden that weighs down the soul from its very center, and so one easily senses that forgiveness is a necessity born in the depths of that very soul.

This, perhaps, we can all agree to. But what is required in this act of forgiveness? We would suggest to you that there are a number of subtle issues associated with this question, and we would speak through each instrument here gathered in a particular way, to address this problem, this conundrum. To this current instrument we would give the task of speaking to what seems to be the most obvious, that is the need to forgive another who has, at least in one's own perception, transgressed against the self. To the one known as Jeremy we would propose a slightly more complex or deep problem, that being the role that forgiveness of the self plays in the process of the forgiveness of the other. And, to the one known as Nithin, we would propose the more nuanced task yet, of attempting to discover the balance between the forgiveness of the other and the forgiveness of the self.

We begin, then, in this instrument, with the simplest of the three versions, that is the experience of an occasion which seems to call for forgiving another self. Now, the forgiveness of another self arises as a need when one feels that one has been personally harmed in some way that truly matters. The other self may be seen to be intentional or unintentional in having performed an act that has caused this hurt, or this offense. Now if the self has not received a hurt or an offense, there will likely not be perceived any need for forgiveness. For example, if someone accidentally bumps into one while walking on the street, one hears the expression of sorrow, such as it is, in a form which is merely passing, and has no real interest. “Excuse me,”&nbsp; they say, and one hardly even needs to reach to any depth at all to let that act of excusing be registered.

When the transgression, however, cuts more deeply, it very often reaches a point within the self that causes some degree of confusion, and one must allow that the other self may very easily have merely happened in to this action, or even if there seems to be more intention embedded in the act that one finds offensive, one can see, if one learns to frame the matter in the right way, that the act has proceeded from some set of circumstances more relevant to the constitution of that _other_ self than to anything having to do with the specific effect that is produced within one's _own_ self. In other words, the hurt may be more a by-product of a set of dispositions, we might say, in the other that were not conceived in an effort to hurt the self. In this circumstance, the process of forgiving generally contains mostly an effort to become aware of what the processes in the other individual might in fact turn out to be. And if an adequate understanding is achieved, a great deal of the hurt seems automatically to be dissipated as a result.

The matter is somewhat different if one perceives in the other a deliberate effort to inflict that pain which one has taken in.&nbsp; One now begins to deal with a circumstance in which two separate wills are in a state of collision, one might say, with each other: the will of the self, and the will of the other. And the fact that the will of the other has been set against one's own will to, shall we say, be harmonious in one's interaction causes a greater disruption than would otherwise be the case. And that raises the ante considerably in the need to forgive the other or in the resources that one must call upon in order to get that forgiveness done.&nbsp;

Now these resources can be strained even further if it should turn out that the other self is not just willfully arrayed against one's own self, but is so in such a way that it is resolute as well as being deliberate in the way it has gone about engaging in its interaction. Thus, if one experiences an _attack_, one must, before the process of forgiveness actually begins in earnest, take measures for the protection of yourself. This can involve something as simple as invoking the white light that is constantly available to you for this purpose. And if the other proves not to be sorry in having engaged in an aggressive act, but&nbsp; remains resolute in its aggression, then the forgiving being—that being you—must engage in the act of forgiveness in a more abstract way, a way that pulls back from the specific nature of the offending agent to a sense of the way the cosmos as a whole is ordered, if you will, so that the act of forgiving does not require any _specific_ return on the part of the offending agency. Forgiving in that sense will not address the particulars of the relationship so much as the fact that the cosmos is so ordered that some relationships cannot achieve harmony in any immediate sense, and so that one looks to the larger sense of the harmony of the cosmos as a whole to be the healing agency, as one endeavors to address the pain or the hurt that one has taken in.

There are many things that we could say about each of these levels of interaction requiring an act of forgiveness of the other on the part of the self, but we feel that this outline will suffice for the nonce. And so at this time we turn the contact over to the one known as Jeremy, in the hope that he might find inspiration to speak to how the relationship of the self to the self comes into play in the processes we have just explored. We are those of Laitos.

_(Jeremy channeling)_

**We are Laitos** and find ourselves with this instrument at this time. We have explored some aspects of the forgiveness condition when it is in the projective phase. It creates tensions that are easy to observe as energies are exchanged, intentions are determined, and processes for balance are mediated through the orange and yellow ray dynamics of your third density experience.&nbsp;

Now, the truth of the matter, when it comes to the forgiveness of oneself, is that these dynamics and these energies–and truthfully, these balancing patterns–are ever-present. However, it is in manifestation that these situations allow and afford the more obvious consequence against which a mind/body/spirit complex can see its outline and test the fitness of that [which is] outlined in the experience of self. When the attention is suddenly inverted and becomes a clarifying project for those items that the self may not always fully account to the self for, we have then a more blurred and foggy work before us, do we not?&nbsp;

We of Laitos encourage a baptism of the self in these less articulated energies and experiences, using the lessons that have been learned in the outer experience. For all with whom you have wrestled in the unfolding of the forgiveness act are in truth yourself, and they can provide templates, hints for what may be directed inward, so that you begin to feel in a visceral manner what you grasp for in the interactions with your fellow other selves.&nbsp;

Now these dynamics with other selves have been sufficiently laid out for you, and so we would concentrate on their inward application. It is an opportunity to recognize the self in a clumsy, dislocated manner, one that is not comfortable to realize, a self that perhaps has been shuttled away to the corner. In order for you to bring full agency of your mind/body/spirit complex to the tasks of service, acceptance, and the recognition of Creator in every direction your gaze falls, you must listen carefully to those parts of yourself that have been ignored in order to create the very possibility [that] forgiveness of self is warranted.

We speak of a kind of acknowledgement of a more full and total self that the personality which you project into waking consciousness picks and chooses from. This picking and choosing, this creation of a self on a moment-by-moment basis, this curation of the Creator as an act of manifestation, is not designed to indefinitely limit the scope of what you experience as self. It is designed instead as a channel for energies that require stepping down. As you explore the contours of this personality with which you have identified, you may begin to understand how it provides an opportunity for a change of focus, a change of orientation.&nbsp;

This opens up opportunities to see those parts of the self that have been neglected and weeded out. For you will find much fault with a personality construct. A vehicle is designed for a task, for an environ, in order to make that environ, that task tangible, executable, and recognizable. The secret is to recognize the folly with which you maintain this identification beyond a certain point, and we have conveyed a portion of this threshold that the mind/body/spirit complex crosses as, in part, one of maturity.&nbsp;

It is an easier act to simply beat the self down when it does not measure up, much easier in terms of maintaining the personality construct’s integrity to act and reproduce itself moment by moment. But as you learn how to realize these fuzzed energies that surround the construct of personality, my brothers, you begin to see that you have desires that go beyond this personality. Your will is not simply limited to grasping the steering wheel of the vehicle as it is in your thoughts and feelings, and you realize how much garbage you have tossed out the window to try to blot it out, and this can be an opportunity for deep regret and remorse.&nbsp;

The forgiveness of self requires first the experience and diving into this remorse. It is not punishment; it is recovery of wholeness. You begin to experience yourself as a lesson in and of itself, and the student becomes a greater awareness, a greater foundation of integrity that does not require this ledger of loss and profit to be so scrupulously maintained.&nbsp;

The energies go out and reach many different possibilities of selfhood, and as you learn to recognize what is you in those energies, suddenly mistakes you have made become friends, not lashes upon your back. You begin to see the didactic nature of this process in which there is an accounting that one must give to oneself. It becomes less a confession of harm or shame. As you learn to extend your light within, these dark corners in which you have placed those undeveloped, immature parts begin to reach out.

Now, you may experience and prosecute this project in as visualized, articulate [a] way as you wish. The important point is the ability to stretch one's heart into the corners, and to experience in the recession of the darkness a sense of wholeness. It does not mean that mistakes were not made; it means mistakes were necessary. There was a need to be that self at that time. What this can offer you is an idea of the concept of transformation that you do not need to map out intellectually. You can feel into it, and then becoming that self that you feel grows in acceptance of parts that have been rejected.&nbsp;

We are those of Laitos, and we feel we have come to a stopping point in this monologue. And at this time we wish to transfer this contact to the one known as Nithin and descend upon him to offer warmth in the expression of new ideas mixed with old, so that being a self becomes a flow, a channel, where we blend with your energies, brother. I am Laitos, and I now transfer this contact&nbsp;

_(Nithin channeling)_

**We are Laitos**. We are with this instrument. We speak on the nuanced nature of forgiveness of the self and other.

We would suggest that it is helpful to remember that the self and the other self are one, and so to consider, when one has trouble forgiving oneself, to consider how they may have been able to forgive the other self for a similar situation and vice versa. Forgiveness is a concept that also extends past both the self and the other self in the sense that it can be applied when one feels wronged even if the wrongness of the situation or experience cannot be identified clearly as either the other self or the self or any group of selves. This understanding of forgiveness and applying forgiveness in such situations is useful with the heavy veil here on Earth. Forgiveness in this context is related to many other green ray concepts such as acceptance, understanding, and finding the love in the moment.

The concept of forgiveness is one that your peoples have had trouble with on this planet, and as an essential part of the green ray opening and activation, to be able to forgive is to also allow oneself to be vulnerable to the uncontrollable and unknown nature of this reality. The strength in forgiveness is not in avoiding pain but being able to persevere and have strength despite the wrongness of these experiences that bother oneself and lead oneself to the application of forgiveness.

This instrument is experiencing some resistance, and so we pass this contact to the one known as Steve.

_(Steve channeling)_

**I am Laitos,** and I am again with this instrument. We would like to thank the instrument known as Nithin, and give assurances that we are more than satisfied with the extent to which the instrument known as Nithin has been able to carry our message into words. For, indeed, there is much in what we have sent that has been expressed, and we are gratified.

We would sum up our discussion of the issue of forgiveness by one simple means: by posing a question which is only apparently rhetorical, [refracted into facets]. That question would be: Who am I that needs to forgive; who are you that needs to be forgiven; who am I that, in my feeling of having been offended, finds that this very imperfection that has arisen within me needs to be forgiven? Who are you that has needed to be forgiven, and has, by some grace which lies beyond my own power, found that forgiveness, even as it is expressed in my own person?

These are puzzles, if you will; they are conundrums that exist not only within the domain of third density, but also reach well beyond, and fuel the urge to seek that which is always and ever the same, in all forms of life, and all densities of seeking, as we understand them. We do not come to you, my friends, with advice. We do not come to you even with encouragement. What we _do_ is come to you with our offer of communion, and, in our engagement together, we ask only that you seek the center of that communion, and allow yourself to speak as one with us, from out of that center. Yes, my friends, we are the ones known to you as Laitos, and we join together with you in glorifying the One Creator in this moment on this occasion. We thank you, my friends, for the opportunity to be with you. Adonai. Adonai, my friends.

[^1]: The instrument actually said "I am Latuii" to open but closed as Laitos, so we may assume it was a mere mistake.
