---
title: Q'uo on Setting Intentions
group_question: Today we would like to ask for Q'uo to speak on the mechanics of setting intentions.
introduction: In this final session from the Working Group’s 2024 gathering, those of Q’uo address concerns around the setting of intention. They begin by counseling the seeker to tidy their mind and heart, recognizing that one cannot eliminate all impediments to transformation. On the service-to-others path we set our best intentions by seeking their alignment with the Creator’s will. By using a lighter touch in effecting our own will, we make space for our intentions to keep pace with phenomenal opportunities and deepen with reflection. Follow up questions are offered with respect to lessening Earth’s suffering and intentionally programming dreams.
categories:
- Circles/The High Altitude Receiving Center (HARC) Circle
- Contacts/Q'uo
- Events/Gathering '24
- Instruments/Jeremy
- Instruments/Steve
- Topics/Acceptance
- Topics/Biases
- Topics/Choice
- Topics/Control
- Topics/Despair
- Topics/Dreams
- Topics/Earth
- Topics/Earth Healing
- Topics/Emotions
- Topics/Evolution
- Topics/Faith
- Topics/Free Will
- Topics/Humility
- Topics/Individuality
- Topics/Intention
- Topics/Law of One
- Topics/Light Touch
- Topics/Perspective
- Topics/Service
- Topics/Transformation
- Topics/Will
- Topics/Wisdom
audio: "https://harc-assets.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/audio/2024-06-10_harc_gathering-24_006.mp3"
---
_(Jeremy channeling)_

**We are Q'uo** , and we greet you, my friends, in the love and light of the One Infinite Creator to whom we all belong, which mediates our discourse and interactions amongst each other. Our warmest welcome we give you as our brothers and sisters united in the excavation of that imperishable principle that motivates the evolutionary project. It is such a grand idea, and it is one which you do well to not worry about too much, and we speak in this regard chiefly to those who are new on this path of practicing the reception of finer vibrations such that new perspectives may obtain from one's inquiry of life. This is as precious to us as it is to you.

We are often voices murmuring in the distance of the human endeavor, looking on, sorrowing at what must be grieved and celebrating those sublime moments of breakthrough where levels are transcended in the hierarchy of the Creator's beautiful and undeniably pure expression of self. And we wish to only visit in order to offer the smallest of aids to your seeking, for it is increasingly important as you refine your energies and focus them on your intentions that they arise from your heart, and that the lessons of wisdom that all in this circle have worked on in their own ways are united with that center of self that connects a mind/body/spirit complex to a center of infinity.

Because we counsel an ear given to the voice of the heart, we must not feel it our duty to interfere with the primacy of that contact within. Should our contact lead you astray from that which you feel is right and proper and true, then we would have you leave our words aside and follow your own path, follow the light that you detect, knowing full well that we will meet one day, not in this attenuated, energetic character, but instead we will see each other as the self, fully and truly, and we look forward to this celebration. And until then use care with our words, and let them enunciate the mantra of one's heart within and not lead one on a wild goose chase for a truth that one cannot personally abide. Thank you for continuing this tradition of valuing one's own intuition, one's own perspective, one's own seeking purposes most highly, and thereby honoring us deeply when we are able to offer a kind of help that truly expresses your own nature in new and vibrant ways.

With this disclaimer offered, we may now explore this quite interesting topic, for it makes a presumption, my friends, to talk about intention--the crystallization of the deeper expressions of creative upswelling, of energetic upsurge--in terms of something as rote and rigid as mechanics. And yet, this phrasing you have offered provides something of a template for how we may truly help you with where you stand at this moment. There are aspects of your mentation which call to the process, the cause-and-effect character that the metaphor of mechanics gestures towards.

We would begin addressing this by enunciating clearly the background for a more focused appreciation of intention, for one's focus on outcomes, on fruition, can often obscure, in a way, the more holistic view of the mind/body/spirit complex in its temporal role as occupying a position in an overall trajectory of seeking. Intention is formed by the diligent seeker only after many wanderings in the forest of desire and the desert of one's frustrated seeking. The journeyman of spirit at a certain point runs into the oasis of will, the pure crystal fluid that gives the seeker refreshment, the opportunity to release oneself from a particular structure of understanding the self and thereby lay the groundwork for that moment of transformation in which this context we are dancing about takes on a new characteristic, a new mood and orientation of perspective.

When we share perspectives from our position in a higher density, we are many times hoping that it will resonate with your transformative impulses such that you may cooperate with a moment of opportunity that we see perhaps a bit more clearly, and this moment of opportunity does not always precipitate into a crystal of clear intention. No, my friends, often it is confusing to you; ergo our cautionary preamble to our message, so that you may make use of our information when it is useful to you. But you are the keeper of that opportunity, not we of Q'uo.

You sit with this mind/body/spirit complex you have arranged around your core center and have perhaps forgotten the creative act by which this was completed, the participation in our One Infinite Creator's plan. And this is all well, my friends. As you sit and let the stillness re-habituate you to a deeper sense of purpose and selfhood, you see on the distant horizon new opportunities, new pathways by which you might grow into greater co-creatorship.

In the meantime, you must maintain an integrity of third-density selfhood. You must play along, in a way, with the script of one's social selfhood, the tenuous nature of one's orange-ray concept, and the most basic and often frustrating needs of red-ray. All of this is training of a sort so that you may arrive at the heart opened and radiating. And as we have explained through other contacts, this recognition of the light within begins to resonate with others whose lights within you begin to sense vaguely, and in this way you clear out eddies and stagnant waters of desire and harsh self-judgment, and intentions become more practical to set in those more focused states.

Therefore, our first point that we would make on the mechanics of intention has not so much to do with the one-pointedness that the adept applies to one's desire and will such that the path is laid before one. It has much more to do instead with the context in which this intention is set, the items of distortion that will distract from this intention. Indeed, as new instruments here, you might recognize how the act of channeling our messages from the Confederation will sometimes be pulled off course by stray desire and unresolved tensions that are strewn about the path ahead. The lubrication of this machine, to use your metaphor, is necessary. It must be uniform in order to best bring about the possibility for intention to meet its target, so to speak.

And therefore, before one arrives at a clear pathway towards one's intended goal, feeling the divine wind at one's back, it is necessary to clear out the obstructions within the self. This is done by taking that deep self so focused on the object of one's intent and stilling it, stilling it so absolutely that the detritus of one's unbalanced distortions comes into view. This is often a source of frustration for the seeker, for one wishes to cut to the chase, as it will, and simply move forward into the next chapter of transformation. This impulse is proper: it pushes you forward, but it does not obviate the need for tidying up the self.

Now, my friends and fellow seekers, in third density the self is never so sterile and uniform as to have no impediments at all, no friction at all on the forward path. This friction is important in a way, for it shows you on terms that you may not deny that your motion is towards the object of your desire, your intention that you wish to see manifest in your life. So, before we release contact from this instrument, we wish to ask that you cut yourself a break, for there are many moments in the seeking self. Some are more conducive to the refining fire of transformation than others, and you must be willing to release and let go and bid a fond farewell to distortions that, however distracting, gave you a sense of your location on your seeking path.

This is quite a big step, for you will hardly ever abide in discomfort willingly. This is too much to ask of a creature so bound to the material plane, so biased by the second density impulses for survival and flourishing in a basic sense. We suggest a kind of watchword be maintained by the diligent student of transformation, which is to push forward towards one's intention, but to do so with a light grasp instead of one so rigid and tense that it makes of the friction a mechanical failure, so to speak, and creates damage that is unnecessary. This means you must be very kind to yourselves, even when you consider your seeking disappointing, and it is for this reason--that disappointment narrows the aperture of perception--that we hold the conceit that we may offer some widening through our words of that perceptive aperture, so that you may see a greater setting for this composition of intention that draws you forward and that provides a channel for the upward spiraling light to move you towards greater unity and greater utility to your infinite Creator.

With this point made, we feel it is appropriate to transfer our contact to the instrument known as Steve. We are those of Q'uo.

_(Steve channeling)_

**I am Q'uo** , and I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. It is our great joy to be able to join you on this fine day, where we feel as inspired by the light of your seeking as you perhaps may feel by the offering of our small assistance to you on your appointed ways. We would at this time also like to welcome to our midst the one known as Carla, who has asked to join this circle of seeking upon this occasion.

Now, you wonder in your heart how you might purify your intentions, that they might more clearly represent the highest and best you may have to offer in service, both to those whom you love, whom you perhaps have not yet found a way to love, and to the one Creator whose love runs back to you every bit as much as your love travels in the direction of that Creator. You are beings of infinite light, my friends, beings of bottomless love, and yet you toil in regions where that light is often dimmed and that love is often hardly felt. And so we would say to you that the very first question you must ask in formulating anything like an intention is the one central question with which every seeker must begin, and that is: _who am I and what do I stand for?_

Now, it is very common to discover within the self intentions that bubble up and that would, if left unexamined, be most happy to entwine themselves around and within the seeking of the self, around and within the self, even so as to want to define that very self, to situate its sense of who it is. But these intentions, when more closely examined, are not always entirely in agreement with themselves. You find this intention, you find that intention, you wish to serve this person, you wish to serve that person, what does it mean to do so? What does it mean to serve? What does it mean to be the one who wants to serve? And should it happen that the service that I have to offer should fall on barren ground, should it happen that the service I have to offer should be perhaps rejected, should it happen that the service I have to offer in the offering of it shows itself to be less than pure in intention, who _then_ am I who have proposed this service? Do I know who I am well enough to know what my intention should be? Do I have enough discipline within myself to order a regimen of service to a single cause? Am I able to speak for myself in a way that reaches as deep down as it does high up?&nbsp;

Well, these are weighty questions, are they not, my brothers and sisters? These are questions that are as elusive as a butterfly. Now, you think you have a good sense of where you are going and that which you would like to see realized in your world and in your life experience. And now perhaps you wonder, did I really have a clear understanding of what it was I was about? Do I really know myself? Can I really stand before the Creator and say, here I am? I am here to serve.

Now, I have given you a tall order, and it is an order before whom the knees surely begin to quake. Dare I stand before the Creator, or do I feel I must hide my head in shame, fearing that my intentions are not actually as pure as I intended them to be? Am I not shown in this mirror of the gaze upward that reciprocates in a downward gaze from the Creator down to me, that I am, after all, a creature wrapped in despair, wracked by agony, beset by afflictions, as much of my own creation as by anything that has been put upon me from this veil of tears I call the outside world?

O troubled conscience! O disquiet mind! O sorrowing spirit! I seek, do I not, first of all, sweet liberation from the dross and the dust that I only just now feel myself in want and in desire to be emerging from? Yes, my brothers and sisters, it is a dusty path; it is a long and arduous road that the genuine seeker must travel. These are difficulties no one can deny, and perhaps, upon reflecting upon these things, I do well to be just a little hesitant when inquiring about what intentions I must set, for indeed, every intention comes with its consequence, and every consequence reflects back to the one who intends, not just the light of that intention, but also its shadow, and the more strongly that intention is set--or we might say, the more willfully it is done--the more strongly delineated its shadow may become.

We do not intend, by these words, to strike fear in your heart, or to put you off your program of seeking, or to suggest in any way that you are unworthy; for my friends, in our eyes you are worthy to the infinite power. No, my friends, our cautionary words are merely intended to offer a point of reflection which suggests the propriety of the light touch in the intending, so that you may allow a process of transformation to take place in the nature of that intending as you go.

It may be well to consider the process of intending not to be so mechanical in nature, but rather more poetical in nature, so that the poetics of intending may have within them that inner receptivity that the poet always solicits from the muse. "Let my intention," one might say, "be aligned with the highest and best self I could aspire to be, and if this alignment creates within me a transformation so that the intention itself becomes hardly recognizable from that form in which it was first imagined, all the better." For every act of genuine service must be open to the transformation of the self that that service can carry in train.

We will say that one can pursue a path whereby it is felt to be necessary to take a somewhat hardened view, shall we say, of an area in need of an intention that is rather strict and rigorous. An example of such a circumstance would be one in which one finds oneself beset, perchance, by negative thought-forms, something which one feels the need to purge from the process of being a self. And under these circumstances, one does well, perhaps, to seek out an analog in the bodily receptive of these intentions. For example, one may undertake the fast in order to provide to the deeper portions of the mind an analog by which it might live as it undergoes this purgation. An experience of this nature does indeed have the character of setting a rather firm and structured intention to which one seeks to abide.

Thus, the poetics of intentionality are not all of one flavor, so to speak, but come in a many-hued rainbow of possible manifestations. We encourage always the process of self-reflection, however, as the central moment of inquiring what intentions might be set, and how they might be set such as to better permit that higher and better self to shine through the dusty, long, weary, and sometimes shop-worn features of selfhood that I have always already acquired along the way.

We are those of Q'uo, and we would like to express our gratitude for allowing us this presence upon your beautiful, beautiful day. And we would like to convey the thought that this gratitude is shared to the very utmost by the one known as Carla, who has been permitted to blend her energies with that of this instrument upon this one occasion.

We are Q'uo. Are there further queries that remain upon the minds of those present?

**Stephanie:** Yes, Q'uo. With a great heart of compassion toward our Mother Earth, observing the suffering and the hardships between us that perhaps burden her, how can I lighten her load?

**We are those of Q'uo** , and we believe we understand the thrust of your query, my sister. You have fastened your eyes upon the sorrows of this domain, and sorrows there are aplenty.

We would suggest to you that the lightening of the load as you have phrased it is possible in small ways upon small occasions as they will present themselves as opportunities for your engagement. And yet if you step back, you will find that the small offerings you have made, as efficacious as they may have been, in fact, have made but little difference in the groans of agony and cries of despair emanating from your planet at this time. This experience which your fellow souls share upon this planet is, we would suggest to you, itself, a creature of free will. And all its sorrows and all its pain and all its suffering is but the destiny of souls who, for a very long time now, have been caught in a tangle where the path to seeking has not yet been made clear.

Oh, how wonderful would it be if we could but reach out the helping hand to all of anguished humanity, all suffering animals, the very aching planet itself. But, alas, it is more than you can do to lift up the whole of that mass of sorrow, and indeed we will say to you in all humility: it is more than we can do. For the truth is that salvation lies for each only along the pathways of freedom of the will, and there are myriads of choices yet before all souls caught in the tangle of sorrow.

We empathize with this sorrow, and, to some small extent, so may you, in the hope that a little bit of light of love might penetrate through an aperture here and there, so you may send this love. The more effective it may be, the more pure the sending, but we would counsel that to expect tangible results would be, perhaps, a little much. We sorrow with you, my sister, at the vision of sorrow which you have shared with us. And we will say that, as it has been one of our primary duties to feel and to try to heal this sorrow in whatever small ways are available to us, we feel a little healing coming from you as one who has joined our effort.

And we thank you for the query, my sister. Are there further queries at this time?

**Jamie:** I would ask that you share your thoughts on intentions with regard to exploring the dream state.

**I am Q'uo** , and we do believe that we understand your query, my sister.

The dream state is a rather specialized state of affairs with regard to the nature of intention insofar as they represent a communication to the waking self from the deeper portions of the unconscious being for the most part. So, the first order of intention that one might set as one prepares for the slumber is to express a desire that the waking self orient itself in such a way that it shall be open to what is on offer. This setting of the intention, we find, aids in the recollection of the dream, so that the particulars of the dreaming may be brought to light in the waking state, and there analyzed for what they might have to suggest concerning where work might profitably be done.

There is another type of intention that one might set when it comes to opening to suggestions from higher portions of the self often involving higher density of being, and here we speak of the higher self. That too begins as a process of setting the intention of being open, for one does not wish to dictate the terms of that openness, that being left to the higher self as the source whose agency will revolve around the effort at communication. Openness is the key in both cases.

There are some in the magical tradition who have sought experimentally, shall we say, to propose an item, generally one without serious emotional resonance, to appear within the dream, and in this manner to suggest the possibility of awakening within the dream to a more lucid state. This could speak to a kind of magical mechanics which can have some use, and those who are more adept in entering the dream in a more lucid state can find techniques of this sort to be somewhat fruitful. But we would suggest that even in such cases it is well to keep in mind that the primary intent is to remain open to the communication, so that the thrust of that communication should not be lost, and the significance of it shall be something that can be taken up and worked with later in the conscious state.

Are there further queries, my sister?

**Jamie:** No, thank you.

**We are those at Q'uo** , and we would like to thank each here gathered for the sacrifice and the beauty that has been involved and has been brought to this circle of seeking. It is likely almost impossible for you to understand the sense in which your seeking is a tremendous gift to us, for by calling us to your circle, you give us life in a domain in which we otherwise have none, and we draw strength from this domain in ways beyond description, and we draw encouragement from your calling in ways that enliven our seeking, in ways that are subtle and nuanced beyond compare. Our gratitude overflows, my friends. We thank you.

We are those of Q'uo with the one you know as Carla this day, taking our leave of this instrument in love and in life. Adonai, my friends. Adonai. Adonai. Adonai. ☥
