---
title: Quo on the Journey of Self Discovery
introduction: Through a training instrument, those of the Q'uo principle discuss self-discovery as a process of remembering, guided by higher selves and signposts encountered along life's journey. Dreams are highlighted as a significant, yet often overlooked, connection to the unconscious, offering lessons that require honesty and effort to interpret. Q'uo cautions against the allure of adopting external identities in a world full of distractions and instead advocates for meditation and introspection as essential practices for genuine self-discovery.
categories:
- Contacts/Q'uo
- Events/Sixth Channeling Intensive
- Instruments/Jamie
- Topics/Discernment
- Topics/Discipline of the Personality
- Topics/Distraction
- Topics/Dreams
- Topics/Higher Self
- Topics/Honesty
- Topics/Meditation
- Topics/Memory
- Topics/Mind Complex
- Topics/Reincarnation
- Topics/Responsibility
- Topics/The Veil
- Training Session
---

(_Jamie Channeling_)

**We are Q'uo**. We are now with this instrument. We are pleased to again be with this circle. The beauty of your collective light and collective seeking is beyond words. We begin with our customary reminder for all who may hear or read these words. Use careful discernment that anything that does not resonate as true be cast aside and not be given further thought. 

The topic we are called to speak on today is that of the journey of self-discovery that, from the perspective of the third-density entity, seems apparently obvious, yet is cloaked in mystery. Although we may be entities of vast experience and multitudes of incarnations, we undergo forgetting so that we may proceed through this incarnation from a clean slate. The so-called self-discovery may be better understood as remembering. We have, through the careful yet subtle guidance of our higher selves, set up certain signposts, fail-safes, that when our seeking is attuned or the need is great and the calling is sincere, may be revealed to us along the way. 

The most readily available and commonly dismissed method of contact with the so-called unconscious mind is the feature or tool known as dreams. A method cherished and pursued by this instrument. Every night as we sleep, we enter a liminal space of a character very different from the conscious mind and are able to experience catalysis, lessons, both potent and mundane, through which only a concentrated effort are we able to recall and work with.

One of the most important modes of interpreting these messages is honesty. As with all movement from catalyst to experience, the jewels are faceted through only the most rigid honesty and also care. In your world of dazzling distractions, forceful personalities, and glittering technology there are so many frameworks and models we can apply to ourselves.

We are offered so much. It's so simple to simply adopt an appealing image or collect witty phrases and cherry pick personalities and apply them to ourselves. My friends, you have your work cut out for you. As we have in so many other messages, we would again remind you that only through meditation and honest review may the process of self-discovery be made more clear and more potent.

And with this, we would like to express our gratitude for inviting us to your circle. We are so pleased and wish to extend our support and love to all and especially these new instruments. We now take our leave of this instrument and leave you in love and light. Adonai, we are Q’uo. ☥
