---
title: Q'uo on Aversion to the Exercise of Will
group_question: How do we effectively engage our will when we find ourselves having an aversion to something that needs to be done?
introduction: Here Q'uo addresses the frustrated experience of feeling aversion towards exercising one's will to act in accordance with one's presumed identity. They suggest in this session that our desires and the universe's response to them are part of a dynamic relationship which discloses to us our own nature. The veiling effect hampers this disclosure from being clearly recognized, leaving us struggling to reconcile our assumed responsibilities and the past choices that lead to them with our present desires. This is but another facet of the eternal question of how to assert ourselves when doing so cannot help but uncover the unknowns of our own nature. Q'uo locates the friction of aversion here in this question of identity and urges an acceptance of the self's role in the Creator's project of self-discovery.
categories:
- Circles/The High Altitude Receiving Center (HARC) Circle
- Contacts/Q'uo
- Events/Sixth Channeling Intensive
- Instruments/Jamie
- Instruments/Jeremy
- Instruments/Linus
- Topics/Acceptance
- Topics/Catalyst
- Topics/Control
- Topics/Desire
- Topics/Discernment
- Topics/Discipline of the Personality
- Topics/Emotions
- Topics/Forgiveness
- Topics/Honesty
- Topics/Individuality
- Topics/Pain &amp; Suffering
- Topics/Patience
- Topics/Perspective
- Topics/Service
- Topics/The Veil
- Topics/Will
audio: "https://harc-assets.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/audio/2024-11-05_harc_ci6_020.mp3"
---
_(Jeremy channeling)_

**I am Q'uo**. I am with this instrument. Greetings and blessings, my brothers and sisters.&nbsp;We are very pleased to have such an embarrassment of riches in our intercourse with your circle. It has been our deep honor as well, for we would hint at the great tradition you have continued, and it stretches back longer than you care to acknowledge in its particularities and in its overall spirit. Thank you for going to the trouble to give us this opportunity to be more frank with your peoples.&nbsp;

As always, this frankness is designed to lay our cards on the table, and you may discard any which you choose without any feeling on our part of failure or loss. We hope that, by this moment in your evolution as a community of practice, you too have learned to weigh our words appropriately without any conflict within. Thank you for the discipline of personality that this requires and the love you show in spite of your opinions on a momentary aspect of a message. For this, my friends—to allow each other to be as we are—this is freedom; this is how we free each other.&nbsp;

This topic of freedom is involved in our message today, for when one discovers the great power and pressure of will—the dynamic of striving towards the upward spiraling light—there is another reciprocal aspect of this, my friends, for it could be said that the light draws us, and the will we exercise in some respects is not appearing as an agency all the time, but instead as a kind of attraction, a charm on us. Both of these sides have merit in the analysis of the self, for even the most primordial distortion is a distortion, and you must be able to fill in the blanks of those aspects of the Creator which stream into your awareness. Otherwise, you would be simply going through the motions of a theater production.&nbsp;

It is our wish that you would feel that all options are on the table at all times, but of course we understand—in much greater degrees than you do—the 360 degree nature of our motivations. This means that when we desire something, the will is applied almost automatically and fully, without any necessary conflict or friction within. And then, the illusion will disclose what our object shall be in our seeking. The illusion accepts our query, our request, shall we say, and we accept its answer, knowing that we are merely relating over a chalk line, and nothing that is truly limiting our creativity. In your illusion, my friends, this does not obtain so easily, and therefore you find yourself in situations where what you would have done, you would not do; where you would project yourself, you dare not close the distance without some trepidation.&nbsp;

We would begin this address to aversion, firstly, by pointing out how precious it is. Your beingness is drawn from many venues of consciousness, many layers that you have penetrated in your awakening to the upward spiraling light. If it were a seamless and frictionless path, there would be no learning. There would be no ability to build strength and determination, nor would there be opportunities for reconsidering one's striving in some particular.

Of course, this is very basic. So, with thanks to this instrument, let us deepen our treatment of this topic and shift our contact to the one known as Jamie to pick up our strand of thought. We are those of Quo.&nbsp;

_(Jamie channeling)_

**We are those of Quo**. We are now with this instrument. We now pick up this thread and continue to speak on the monumental and underestimated force that is will.&nbsp;

Like a magnet drawing filings to its surface, we attract through desire and thought all things that we desire, both those of the light and those of the shadow. That which repels us is drawn to us with a force just as strong. As you go through your day making choices, feeding our hearts with desires and wishes and fancies, it's easy to bend the mind on these things, expecting the universe to deliver them in a way that we desire. Yet we would say that as our mind bends on an object, a feeling, that the universe itself arranges itself around our will and around our desire, a very potent system, my friends. We encourage you not to take this lightly and have the patience and fortitude to be ready to examine and explore the fruits of our will and desires very carefully.&nbsp;

At this time we will take our leave of this instrument and pass the thread along to the one known as Linus. We are Quo.

_(Linus channeling)_

**We are those of Q’uo** , and we are with this instrument. We wish to examine in a bit more detail the nature of aversion and the common strategies employed by your peoples with respect to obligations or how one may find oneself expected to perform service or provide help when the self may not feel the easy flow of energy in this direction.&nbsp;

There are many reasons, many potential causes and configurations that can arise within oneself leading to feelings and emotions that seem to set one against a particular necessity in action for the self or for another self. One may feel that one's actions are not properly appreciated, that one is not seen; that one's actions, though necessary and expected, seem futile. Or one may find themselves with the consequences and responsibilities incurred from choices long ago that did not anticipate a present configuration.&nbsp;We wish to provide some information that may be helpful in these cases and in general when one finds oneself facing a difficult task where one's will seems flagging or not up to the task or would desire otherwise than to perform what seems necessary.&nbsp;

Each individual finds the self with many responsibilities, duties, obligations, necessities. Some of these are imposed by social convention, culture. Others by dependence upon ourselves, by other selves. And we would say that it is well to carefully consider the set of responsibilities that one has taken upon oneself to examine how one arrived with such demands upon the self. And at some point were these freely chosen? For some items it is possible to renegotiate, reconsider or modify the responsibilities one has assumed. In others it is not so easy.

Being honest with oneself about one's capacity to serve and to sincerely perform responsibilities and duties is a most important one. The Creator has provided each with many opportunities in life in each moment to serve, and many of these opportunities can become seemingly more fixed at a given time. For those duties and responsibilities that are most pressing and necessary and will not be renegotiated, perhaps then it is an attitude and perspective that may allow the capacity of strength and will to develop through patience.

In caring for the self there are many such opportunities; mundane tasks, so as they seem, such as washing the dishes, caring for the body, preparing food and hygiene, and providing for oneself. In these simple everyday activities the use of imagination can be effective in transforming these seeming chores into beautiful kindness for self and other self. And we invite you to consider this possibility. Patience is a great help in working with that which persists in its requirement for your attention and service.&nbsp;

At this time we will transfer the contact to the one known as Steve. We are Q’uo.&nbsp;

_(Steve channeling)_

**I am Quo** , and I am with this instrument.&nbsp;

We have taken the trouble to work out the parameters of the difficulty of avoidance to which you have directed our attention this day, and we have made a few suggestions about how this matter might be addressed with some tendency to lessen the difficulty. At this point now we would pull back to examine the character of the particular stage of the grand illusion which is the creation that you presently occupy.

As you know you currently enjoy a type of incarnative pattern which is marked by the presence of what is called the veil, and the veil is most thorough in its effect even to the point that the self is not self-evident to itself. And this we find is the basis of the possibility that the inclinations or directions that the self discovers within itself can be at cross purposes. In fact we might go so far as to say that the veiling of the conscious from the unconscious mind of the self in effect can be expressed as a division between the functions of self-assertion and self-discovery. For the self that one is inclined to assert at any one time is not entirely clear to itself. And what tends to happen as a consequence is that a pattern of conduct is set up that creates expectations for future conduct. And in the future it is quite possible that the same circumstances, the same impulses, the same yearning for creative self-expression might not apply. And in the very difference between what was formerly asserted of the self and what the self now is inclined to assert there is great potential for self-discovery. Was my former inclination misguided? Mistaken? Misinformed? Mis... understood? Or do those failings apply to my present inclination? Who am I after all?

It is true that I find myself most immediately the self that is engaged in my present act of willing. And yet all around me are the effects of past choices, past decisions, past manifestations, past commitments, past involvements that also have been the effect of a willing that was present in its own time. And so the very passage of time, which in your illusion is somewhat relentless, gives opportunity for a clear demarcation of difference among the various moments that you have indwelled. And these differences, we would now like to suggest, are in themselves disclosive to one who gives thought to the matter. And so if you find that the trajectories of conduct that you have established for yourself and that beckon to you as a series of things that you should be doing, sits poorly with you at your present moment, you do well to once again pose that question that pervades your entire experience, which is simply, Who am I? Who have I become? What is it at work within me that has induced me to become in the way that I have done? What is it that is at work with me that prompts me to want to be something else?

And in truth we find that the answer is never, ever fully complete in your illusion, nor, we would confess, is it ever fully complete even in our own. And therefore the great adventure of the creation goes on, as the Creator seeks itself in a vast questioning creation, creative to the core, in each individual scintilla of our creation. It may help, therefore, to forgive yourself your vagrancies and discrepancies of selfhood, for you are but serving the Creator in that way the Creator needs to be served, which is in the mode of exploration. There is perhaps a little bit of comfort to be taken in this observation.&nbsp;

And with that small comfort and encouragement we would at this time leave this instrument and this group thanking all those here gathered for the dedication they have shown in making the sacrifices required to be here at this time. We are grateful beyond words, my friends; grateful more than we can express to you. Adonai, my friend. Adonai. ☥
