---
title: Q'uo on the Matrix, Potentiator, and Significator of Spirit
group_question: Please share information on the Matrix and Potentiator of Spirit.
introduction: Q'uo focuses here on those archetypes of Matrix, Potentiator, and Significator as they relate to work within the spirit complex. Dwelling upon the intense nature of seeking in this domain, they emphasize the importance of polarity and the need for the seeker to have firmly established their orientation towards service-to-others or service-to-self before venturing into the work of Spirit. After discussing the functional and affective aspects of the three stations of the Spirit cycle of archetypes, those of Q'uo affirm both the difficulty of the work in spirit and the profound joy and reward it offers to those who persevere. Before concluding, they entertain questions stemming from the abjectly daunting nature of the spirit complex Q'uo has described.
categories:
- Circles/The High Altitude Receiving Center (HARC) Circle
- Contacts/Q'uo
- Events/Sixth Channeling Intensive
- Instruments/Steve
- Topics/Acceptance
- Topics/Archetypal Mind
- Topics/Balancing
- Topics/Catalyst
- Topics/Choice
- Topics/Control
- Topics/Despair
- Topics/Faith
- Topics/Honesty
- Topics/Individuality
- Topics/Infinity
- Topics/Intention
- Topics/Law of One
- Topics/Matrix
- Topics/Polarity
- Topics/Potentiator
- Topics/Protection
- Topics/Responsibility
- Topics/Safety
- Topics/Self-consciousness
- Topics/Significator
- Topics/Sorrow/Joy
- Topics/Spirit Complex
---

_(Please note the recording was started just after the channeling began, and the opening words were transcribed from memory)_

_(Steve channeling)_

**I am Q’uo** , and I am with this instrument at this time. We are grateful for the opportunity to participate with you in your moment and hour of seeking. We know that you will exercise your discrimination in sorting through what we have to say. For all here are of enough experience to understand that when it comes to seeking the Spirit, each is responsible for what it takes in and for that truth which may be owned. 

Our topic today relates to the concept of Spirit and in particular to those archetypal moments which serve as the adit to that very delicate structure which lies closer to you than most of you can realize. For it is not the most obvious component of your everyday experience, and it can be most elusive even when specifically and consciously sought in a dedicated manner. It is as if the Spirit always lies just behind you or just beyond your reach. Although we will say that there is no reach which you may undertake which is not already infused with the life of Spirit. 

There is, it may seem, something a little bit strange about saying that there are archetypes in the realm of Spirit, for we have described Spirit as a shuttle, as a pathway, as a point of ingress to what you may call Complete Unity, the Absolute, or Infinity. But in truth, there are very fine articulations of Spirit that are informative when considered as a template for finding your way when you are a seeker past the confines of that which you may understand. 

The Spirit is a complex, we will say, insofar as it has the same archetypal structure that one finds differently expressed, to be sure, in the complexes of mind and body. That is, we speak of Matrix, Potentiator, Significator, Catalyst, Experience, Transformation, and Great Way. Our focus today will be on the first two archetypes of Spirit, with the addition, given your permission, of the third, which is the Significator. 

Now, in the numeration of that which you call your Tarot, the Significator is generally listed in the fifth position. We will treat it here, however, as that which may mediate between the first two, which will be our primary focus. 

So, to the Matrix of Spirit. When one who seeks awakens to the reality of Spirit and directs that seeking towards Spirit, it is as if one were going back up a very long and dark column toward a height that cannot yet even be anticipated. It is an entrance into the unknown which strangely beckons in an almost eerie fashion so that, though one is being drawn upwards, for all the world it feels as if one were falling into a great abyss, or if you prefer, a void. And in this abyss, there is a cognizance of a vastness fair to swamp any sense of individual personality, individual beingness. And any effort made to hold on to those things which may perhaps endear you to yourself is bound to fail. For they have no place here, these characteristics which you have so long accumulated, so hard won, so deeply summoned to yourself, so that to yourself you may be the self you have chosen to be. All must here fall away. And you stand naked before the abyss, exposed in every fiber of your being to energies far beyond your ability to comprehend, without defense or succor of any kind. 

In this condition, you are without what you call your ego. You are without what you know as your accomplishments. You are without what you hope may be your merits. Nothing will avail the complete dissolution into the one singularity of your beingness that you cannot, under any conditions, escape. Naked you stand before the abyss. And the abyss can very likely seem to be not just threatening in the way that you may find your life threatened, but terrifying in a way that you may find horror in the truth that you could not die even to save your soul. So exposed are you now; so utterly, utterly vulnerable.

And yet, and yet, there is hope. There is hope as there is love. There is love as there is faith, though we will say that that for which you might hope is nothing; that in which you might have faith is nothing; that wherein you may place your love is nothing that can be seen, can be touched, can be felt. And so you are left with hope, with faith, with love in their pure forms. And happy indeed is the seeker who has cultivated these qualities prior to stepping into the domain where the abyss of Spirit yawns. These will be the testimonials to who you are. These will be the defense against the void. For in truth, the void is not something in itself with being, but rather it is the _lack_ of being. It is the intrinsically unformed, the chaos against which your own being is configured, even as a shadowy silhouette cast against an indeterminate background. 

Here you stand in this enveloping darkness, a light only unto yourself, and you reach out to solicit that which may come to you from these dark vapors. The energies of spirit are so subtle, so refined, so delicate, that they are almost gossamer, and when that which is solicited comes to you, it does not come with advance warning; it does not come with the usual penumbra of environment which gives hint or indication of how it might appropriately be received. That which comes to you, we say, comes from an unknown zone. Is it the abyss itself? Is there something lying beyond the abyss? Is it something which circumscribes the abyss? Or is there within the abyss something which gives rise to spark, to light, to energy sudden, fiery, and decisive.

Out of the vapors of unimaginable depth comes a stimulus, if you will, that suggests in an instant that the doughty seeker standing within the confines of the Matrix of Spirit is not locked therein, but rather is in relation to some vast potential of fiery import, sourced it cannot be told where. When it comes to the potentiation of Spirit, there is no possibility of anticipating it; no possibility of setting up a framework of expectation suitable to house it when it arrives; no possibility of managing the vulnerable self standing in the Matrix such as to provide a safe receptacle. And therefore, one who has begun work in the complex of Spirit can expect to be thrown off balance, can expect to be staggered, can expect to be utterly confused with each new lightning bolt of potentiation. And a good portion of the work that it is possible to undertake in the early stages of opening the pathway to Spirit is simply one of maintaining such balance, of regaining such balance, as may be achieved. 

Now, the work that lies before the adept who has made it this far in the path of seeking spirit will involve catalyst and experience of a unique nature. And when there has been sufficient balance achieved, it will be of a nature that is paradoxical, after a fashion. For it is balance that requires what we might call an antecedent imbalance, or what you may know as polarity.

In the Significator, there will be a balance between the positive and the negative polarity within either the positive or negative polarity. This may seem confusing, for the polarity of which we speak, and which we have attempted to describe using the terms service-to-self or service-to-others, is work that must needs be done, and done well, and done strongly, and firmly seated in the core of the spiritual aspiration prior to undertaking work in Spirit. One cannot hope to undertake this work from within the spirit complex. This must be work already done. The knot must have been tied so that your Ariadne's thread[^1] into these realms of mystery will hold firm and you may know, despite all the confusion with which you are now confronted, who you are, what you stand for. And you will be buffeted about and you will be tested by catalyst quick and harsh, and you will have no place to hide, but you must know, if you enter these regions of spirit: are you service-to-self or are you service-to-others? 

We speak to you as those who have chosen the path of service-to-others, and here we will say that, yes indeed, standing in this polarized condition which suggests a rejection of the other option and therefore a kind of imbalance, that there is something for you to achieve. There is work here to be done, and it is a work of balancing between the positive and the negative energies of the creation. This requires that you come to grips with a fact you cannot avoid: that you are all things, that your light is subtended by shadow, that though you have studiously avoided sin, transgression, you are indeed one with those who have not so avoided, that in the void there cannot be any avoidance, that you are the murderer as much as the saint, you are the rapist as much as the virgin, and you are the thief as much as the philanthropist.

You are all; there is nothing you can abhor. There is nothing that you can have the skin to keep without yourself, for you are wholly and entirely permeable to all that is. You are all these things, and yet you are all these things in such a way that, clinging to the Ariadne's thread with which you entered the domain of Spirit, you may say yet withal I stand here utterly exposed, utterly permeable, but firmly polarized to the way of love, the way of compassion, the way of hope in life eternal, the way of faith, the way of service, the way of humility.

My friends, it is not an easy business to undertake the work of Spirit, and we do not recommend that you do so lightly, for there is no remedial work you can do in that condition, and it can be greatly disorienting should you attempt to do so. There are resources aplenty in the archetypes of mind and body for you to make preparation for this great entrance, and we certainly commend you to that work, which can never be done too well before graduating to the Great Work. And yet graduating to the Great Work is what we all must do, in the fullness of time. It is what there is to be done, and we will tell you that when you feel prepared and when you make that entrance, there will be a glimmer of light coming down to you from far above, which is the hand reached to aid you in your way.

In hope there is salvation, in faith there is response, in love there is love returned. So, in truth, you are alone in this condition, and yet not alone. That is yet another paradox of the great mystery that is Spirit, and to that mystery we commend you.

We are those of Q'uo, and we would ask at this time if there are any questions that remain in the minds of those here present?

**Baris** : When Q'uo mentioned the harsh response of the Potentiator of the Spirit, it sounded [like] it is devoid of love. I would love to understand that better. And the second part to the question… 

**Q’uo** : We will speak first to the first part and ask that you enunciate the second part subsequently. 

The Potentiator of Spirit is devoid of love in the sense that it is love that reaches you through the void, which means that the nature of that stimulus will have intrinsically no tilt or orientation either to love or to its opposite. The reception of that stimulus in the Matrix will be entirely a function of the polarity of the seeker standing within the Matrix. Thus, if the polarity is sufficiently in one camp or another, there can be some sense of clarity about the nature of that stimulus. If you are service-to-others oriented, you can receive stimulus in love, in compassion. But we will tell you that it is inevitably so sudden, so intense, so thorough in the way that it inhabits the beingness of the seeker that, by virtue of those considerations alone, it can throw you off your balance, it can overwhelm. So even great love can seem like excessive light under those circumstances, and thus that which is positive can seem to be not so in its reception. 

Does that answer your query, my friend?

**Baris** : Yes it does. Thank you. 

**I am Q’uo**. Is there another query?

**Baris:** The second party of the query: you mentioned that we are all things, the rapist and the virgin. In being all things, is the idea that there is a choice to what aspect to manifest?

**I am Q’uo** , and I believe I understand your query, my brother.

At this level there cannot be a choice. At this level there can only be acknowledgement that you are all things, rejecting nothing. You have no protection against all that you are. 

Your shadow is as much a part of who you are as that part of you which is light. You may abhor none. And if your destiny is to control all, you seek to achieve dominance in relation to all that you acknowledge as part of who you are. If your destiny has been chosen as that of love, as that of compassion, you may aspire only to acceptance.This is not easy work, my friend, but it is the only work there is to undertake at this point of spirit. Acceptance and love for all that is.

Is there a further query, my friend?

**Baris** : No.

We are those of Q’uo and would ask if there are any other queries at this time. 

**Jeremy** :  Thank you, Q’uo, and I thank this instrument as well. In the universality of beingness that you just described as a facet of spirit overall, would you confirm or deny my inference that this is represented, in part, in the Great Way of Spirit imagery? 

**We would confirm, my friend, as Quo** , that you are correct in your surmise.

**Jeremy** : Then it seems to me notable that the Creator plucking the harp underneath that circle of different faces that I thought represented that universality has in it perhaps some comfort for the last questioner, in being all of these things,some that would be abhorrent to one. May I take some comfort in this as well? 

**We are those of Q’uo** , and my friend, we would not discourage you taking comfort wherever you may find it. We will say, however, that the comfort taken is pendant upon the work done in the earlier phases of spirit. And it is a source of, shall we say, consolation to know that that comfort dwells in the offing, even while one might stand trembling in the dark night of the soul. The work of Spirit is difficult, even infinitely so, but the reward of Spirit is a joy beyond comprehension.

We are those of Q’uo, and as we have exhausted the energies of this instrument, if not the group, we would at this point take our leave, blessing all here gathered and expressing our very deep gratitude for the intensity of your seeking. For we can tell you that this intensity reaches into the heavens and inspires us. 

Adonai, my friends. Adonai, Adonai, Adonai. ☥

[^1]: Ariadne's thread refers to an exhaustive application of logic to all available routes to an answer to some problem. For more, see [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ariadne%27s_thread_(logic)).
