---
title: Q'uo on Acceptance and Letting Go
introduction: Here Q'uo discusses the value of both letting go and acceptance as a balance to the active pursuit of control. They suggest that true peace and trust emerge from releasing the need to dictate outcomes, inviting listeners to consider the possibilities that silence and passive observation can reveal. Letting go is linked to accessing deeper mental resources and cultivating inner tranquility. Q'uo also advises reevaluating the beliefs and identities we cling to for security, proposing that this can open us up to new experiences and insights. They describe letting go as a compassionate process of forgiveness and healing, emphasizing that it involves working with love and compassion to release and heal, rather than forcefully discarding parts of ourselves.
categories:
- Circles/The High Altitude Receiving Center (HARC) Circle
- Contacts/Q'uo
- Events/Sixth Channeling Intensive
- Instruments/Baris
- Instruments/Jamie
- Instruments/Linus
- Topics/Acceptance
- Topics/Balancing
- Topics/Catalyst
- Topics/Choice
- Topics/Comfort
- Topics/Compassion
- Topics/Desire
- Topics/Discernment
- Topics/Distraction
- Topics/Forgiveness
- Topics/Healing
- Topics/Intuition
- Topics/Perspective
- Topics/Trust
- Training Session
---

_(Linus channeling)_

**We are those of Q'uo** , and we thank each in this circle of seeking for the opportunity to join you in your meditations on the practice and action of letting go and acceptance. We find that at this time upon your planet in your civilizations and cultures that there is a propensity and bias towards the active, the control, seeking to decide the outcome of that which you wish to see happen, and for that which you desire. We are happy to share our thoughts with you about its complement, the passive principle, the exploration of possibility that arises from the letting go and allowance and acceptance. 

We see that in letting go, there is a deep connection to peace and faith, and also, we suggest, curiosity. We raise the theme and topic of peace because from this recognition of all being well, from this innate, inward sense of trust, one finds it more easy to relinquish control, to apply a particular technique, or to attempt to force an outcome. 

We suggest a reflective question, which may be useful to you in your practice of letting go. What may be possible beyond my imagination, if I become silent and watch? What possibilities can I not conceive of, reaching by technique? What am I missing? And we would say that perhaps, in some instances, what may be missing is indeed the letting go, the allowing for that which is not understood but felt in the heart to take an active role. 

In our experience, it is with much practice in letting go that peace and trust is deepened and cultivated. Within the mind, there are many great resources, which are available only when the passive role is assumed by the conscious mind. 

Before transferring contact to the one known as Jamie, we would ask, by way of reminder, that the words that we share be accepted or rejected in accordance with your own faculty of discernment. At this time we transfer the contact to the one known as Jamie. We are those of Q'uo. 

_(Jamie channeling)_

**We are Q'uo**. We are now with this instrument and willl continue to share our thoughts on the subject of acceptance and letting go. 

We will begin by exploring what it is to hold on. In our busy lives, an endless stimuli and catalyst, we cling to things that give us a sense of stability and connection: identities, modes of thinking, and feelings that give us security; touchstones that have served us well and inspired us. The tendency is strong to hold on to these things, carry them as a banner for who we are and what we stand for: for security, comfort, and sometimes performance. Yet there is not always the habit of re-examining these treasures we've gathered: our comforts, the contents of our purses and suitcases. 

Yet we would encourage you to open up these bags, these suitcases that you carry about with you and empty them out, let them go to make room for the new, to widen our viewpoint for the new.[^1] An analogy for this would be: at the airport there is a carousel called “baggage claim.” We look for our familiar suitcase that we have anxiously tracked and expect that it will be there so we may take it with us and lug it along to the next journey. It's scary to let go of the things that once gave us comfort, yet we would encourage you and remind you to look within. All that you need has already been provided to you. 

At this time, we will pass our contact along to the one known as Baris to continue our thoughts on acceptance and letting go. We are Q’uo.

_(Baris channeling)_

**We are Q’uo** , and we continue.

My friends, we appreciate that letting go is not easy. It is not an intellectual act. We suggest going into meditation—connecting with what it is that is pulling your attention, staying with it, bringing it to your heart—will allow you to lean into your intuition. As we said, you have the answers. You have all you need in your heart, a resource that you can tap into. In a reflective state, in meditation, bringing your attention to what pulls your attention will slowly allow you to expand, to look expansively and bring compassion. 

Letting go is an act of slowly changing your consciousness, releasing what may no longer serve you, to give space for more light to fill in. And we suggest self-compassion; we suggest care to be given to the self, to do this gently, to slowly release the strands carefully in meditation, to bring it to your heart, to see if you can accept what is as what is. And with that acceptance, allow yourself to bring in compassion and acceptance and forgiveness. 

The act of letting go is an act of forgiveness and acceptance. So you do not intellectually rip away that which is bothering you and hope it goes away, but instead you heal it, heal it with the love that you bring in. By bringing that healing effect of that love that surrounds you, that love that you have within, it's as if you're releasing the hold on an energy that you were not able to process, that you felt like you needed to protect yourself from. 

And as you bring in that compassion, as you bring in the love, you can slowly loosen, loosen that grip, and by doing so, that energy is let go. So you see, my friends, it is not so much an active act, but rather working with the energies of love, peace, of compassion to bring to your heart. And in doing so, it does what it does: it heals. 

We take great joy in basking in the light that is emanating from this circle. Your seeking is inspiring us, and we're grateful to be called to your circle, to have a small part in supporting you in this great journey toward the Creator, in this inner journey towards yourselves. Thank you, my friends. 

With this, we bid you farewell for the nonce. Adonai vasu borragas. ☥

[^1]: On the recording this clearly sounds like, "to make room for the _do_, to widen our viewpoint for _do_." The instrument simply cannot account for this turn of phrase and believes Q'uo meant "new." Given this is a training session, we're going to go with her gut.
