---
title: Q'uo on the Ego
introduction: In this short training session from a new instrument, those of Q'uo explore the originating logic of the ego and how it is eventually dissolved. The ego is a construct we build as an alternative to realizing our complete natures, and as we spiritually mature we are able to slowly release the stories that frame this ego construct one by one. Q'uo emphasizes the role of compassion towards the self in this releasing and acceptance of the uselessness of the ego's many protections of the self.
categories:
- Circles/The High Altitude Receiving Center (HARC) Circle
- Contacts/Q'uo
- Events/Sixth Channeling Intensive
- Instruments/Baris
- Topics/Childhood
- Topics/Control
- Topics/Discipline of the Personality
- Topics/Law of One
- Topics/Perspective
- Topics/Protection
- Topics/Safety
- Topics/Sorrow/Joy
- Topics/Transformation
- Topics/Trust
- Topics/Yellow Ray
- Training Session
---

_(Baris channeling)_

**We are those of Q’uo** , and we are with this instrument at this time. We greet you once again in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator in whose service we are. We are called to speak on the subject of the ego, and before we begin we’ll remind you once again that we're not authorities. We're fellow travelers, and we ask that you use your faculties of discrimination as you hear this message. 

We'll begin by describing a process: a process of the self solidifying the self. As this instrument reflected on the topic of ego and in his mind imagined having a conversation with his spouse about his channeling of the message about him showing the channeled message to his wife, he recognized what was going on. It was a story that the mind creates that describes a self held by the energy. This energy is used to make the self coherent, consistent, and clues that can be used, such as telling that story, that accomplishment, are all affirmations, are all energy expenditures to hold that notion of a self together. 

You see, my friends, especially in the third density illusion when you don't fully grasp the nature of your true self, you feel the need to create a chamber, a house that you feel secure in. This house, you want to make it solid; a way to understand yourself, a way to relate to others, and with each of these relations, with each of these reflections from the mirrors of other selves, you give this house a little more shape, a little more solidity. You feel more and more secure inside it. As you take your steps towards more and more maturity in the journey back to the source, as you slowly realize your identity of not that small self that is housed in, but of that portion of that infinite being, you start to become aware of the processes that you use to create that solid structure. 

That structure that you call the ego is a structure that you build to fill in a void, a void that you subconsciously feel inside you, that void of not feeling the connection to all. That hole: imagine it like a small black hole inside you that is in need, and you look outside [and ask], how can I fill that hole? How can I feel more secure with myself? How can I feel more safe? How can I feel more enough? And to fill in that void, that hole, you seek the gratification in doing. But you see, a need arises, that need gets fulfilled, and yet another need arises, and you move from one activity to the other, the desire to fill the void more and more. We give this instrument the image that he saw in his studies, early studies, of a description in Kabbalah, where there is a desire to bestow, a desire to give, that is the nature of the One Infinite Creator. And the small self, feeling that lack, tries to fill the void, and eventually recognizes that that void cannot be filled from the outside. And the journey to inward begins: it's a journey of recognizing, remembering the wholeness that you already have, that you already are. 

However, throughout the journey, starting from childhood, you've held on to stories, energies, that tell you otherwise: that you're alone, that you need to do a lot to earn. So you see, my friends, once you start the journey of recognition, of remembrance of your true identity, you slowly start letting go of that what doesn't serve you. It is not that you are not whole; it is that you believed in a structure that you've created, in that separateness [with which] you had to protect yourself. And that structure was built on fear, something that you start getting more familiar with. You start reflecting more, taking yourself into your heart, bringing more compassion to the self that had to erect these walls, that felt it had to protect itself. However, also recognizing that this ego structure no longer serves the self, and something magical starts to happen. As life creates the friction that, with reflection, starts eroding those barriers around the brilliance of the gem that is in you, you start feeling into the wholeness, you start feeling into that oneness that starts emanating out, out of the cracks of the wall, emanates out and starts touching others. Oh, what a joy that is. 

So with that joy and discipline, go on to your journey slowly removing the wall, and what emanates out of you reflects back to you, strengthening that journey, strengthening that faith and the joy along the path. All of you are lighthouses, brilliant gems of infinite worth. As you go on your path of spiritual evolution, as the veil starts thinning, as the walls start lowering, you start connecting with that higher self that is always you, that is always with you. And you go back into your lives, more and more keeping an open heart, relating to your lives, relating to others, relating to circumstances from the vantage point of that higher self, from the vantage point of that lighthouse. You recognize that the stories that you had to tell to yourselves to hold that self solid aren't needed.

That desire to think of me, to keep me solid, starts transforming. With each connection, with each outpouring of that white light, the self starts thinning as you slowly start merging into one another, recognizing that that solid boundary that you thought existed is much more malleable. And you hold one another, you hold the universe in your heart, as you lean into that oneness, that identity that you call ego. It's no longer necessary, and there's tremendous joy, tremendous wholeness that you can lean into. 

You see, my friends, the story that you tell, each story, you can trace it into a sense of making you feel good about yourself, that you're okay, that you're safe, that you're loved, that you're lovable. And as you recognize that you already are all those things: that you already are loved, that you already are lovable, that you already are connected, that you were never separate from the source; that the more you lean into that knowing, the more you lean into that beingness, that vibration, you become a lot more aligned with the universe and bring that light, bring that light about you, around you.

We'd like to remind this instrument of the conversation you had earlier about dignity, about humility, about letting go.[^1] You see, the law is one. As you lean into that oneness, you recognize your dignity; you recognize your dignity as the beauty that you are, the spark of the One Infinite Creator, and with humility, that you're no different than another. You're connected to one another, you lift each other up. And move into that journey by slowly, with a lot of compassion, let go of things that no longer serve you. These trends one by one, these walls one by one. Through deep reflection, through meditation that builds on itself, that builds on faith. Faith that you lean into, that peace beyond all understanding. 

With that, my friends, we wish to leave you basking in that love, in that light, in that word, that is all. We leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai vasu borragas. We are those of Q’uo. ☥

[^1]: This is a reference to an earlier training session whose subject was humility.
