---
title: Q'uo on Discernment in Spiritual Seeking
group_question: How does discernment factor into the life of spiritual seeking?
introduction: In this training session, Q'uo delves into the significance of discernment in navigating the complexities of information exchange in our interconnected society. They underscore the necessity of self-honesty in recognizing one's true desires and intentions, which is essential for sifting through external influences and seeking truth. The communication highlights the potential pitfalls of self-promotion and biased information sharing, suggesting that these can hinder the pursuit of authenticity and connection. To cultivate discernment, Q'uo advises forming bonds with trustworthy individuals, considering a wide array of viewpoints to discern a collective truth, and understanding the underlying motives of information sources. Emphasizing compassion in the process, Q'uo reminds us that love is a crucial companion in the journey through the labyrinth of collective communication.
categories:
- Circles/The High Altitude Receiving Center (HARC) Circle
- Contacts/Q'uo
- Events/Sixth Channeling Intensive
- Instruments/Linus
- Topics/Catalyst
- Topics/Compassion
- Topics/Desire
- Topics/Discernment
- Topics/Honesty
- Topics/Truth
- Topics/Wisdom
- Training Session
---
_(Linus channeling)_

**We are Q'uo** , and we are with this instrument at this time.&nbsp;We are grateful to join your circle of seeking, and we are happy to accept the invitation at this time regarding the question of "What is the role of discernment in human life?"

We hope that in the course of our discussion and thoughts it can become more clear how the use and exercise of discernment can be helpful not only in making personal decisions regarding the use of information in your path of seeking at this time, but that it may become more clear to you how this very important faculty of discernment can be of use to you in your day-to-day lives and spiritual seeking in general.&nbsp;And so we share our usual and typical reminder that we surface in our contacts as preamble to this discussion: to carefully search your heart for those things which you listen to which strike the chords of resonance, and to leave behind those that do not.&nbsp;

We now turn to what we feel is an appropriate introduction in the consideration of discernment, which lies in its motive. What is the cause for the need of training and exercise of discernment? Each individual is a seeker, whether this is made consciously aware or not. Each has desires, purposes, needs with which it becomes necessary to rely upon information that one finds outside the self.&nbsp;

We look upon your planetary culture at this time, and what arrives to our perception is an intricate web of connections and means of communication. We find that information on a great many personal and collective topics and questions are sought. One may be seeking information that corresponds to a particular energy center need or desire; for example, one may be seeking information regarding survival. One may be seeking information regarding making transactions, purchasing products, earning financial activity. And so it is not only that these means of communication and stores of information are used in seeking information, but also the publishing of information. And so, in these dynamics of seeking and publishing information, there are very many ideas about what is proper in terms of justice and rightness in the use of these tools of shared information and learning and communication.&nbsp;

We return to what has been said earlier regarding self-discovery and honesty[1](#footnote-1) for, in the engagement with other selves, one comes up against influence. In taking in influence, one must be clear about one's desires, and this requires a high degree of honesty with the self. If self hopes to see clearly what underlies lines of influence in the information that reaches one's notice, then we wish to expand honesty to the frame and activity of communication, because when we cannot reliably trust the information that comes from other self, this then becomes a great catalyst for self-discovery and renewed spiritual seeking.&nbsp;

What is true? What is wanted? And when engaging with the expressions of other self, be it with other selves of your planetary sphere in your daily activities or in taking in our words at this or other times, it is necessary to be clear in one's desire and seeking. Collectively, it may be found in discussion with other selves through experience and repeated trial and relationship what the value of honest and true communication shared with other self can be as a protection and respite from deception.

We would ask as a question to be considered: what is the cost of deception? What precious thing is lost in polluting the well of truth for personal gain? For all must drink.&nbsp;

It is also in our awareness that it seems necessary to your peoples to engage in self-promotion and advertising and the publishing of information that may support one's personal or collective group interests; and also that these particular activities may become great stumbling blocks both in the pursuit of truth and honesty and also connection. We have no easy answer to provide, for the ways of seeking other self are very much involved with the individual's placement along the path in spiritual seeking, and the form in which this is done will reflect that.

We wish to speak briefly to some areas of inquiry that may be of assistance to those interested in seeking and deepening discernment.&nbsp;The first is to seek out others with whom trusted communication is possible and may be practiced. We find this helpful because not every individual can become an expert in all domains of knowledge and information, as the abundance of information is overwhelming.&nbsp;

If one finds oneself at the frontier of what is known or seemingly possible to be known individually or in relationship with the collective, then it may be well to take in views and information that may at first glance not be within resonance, for in doing a more general survey of what is said we suggest that some image of truth may emerge from many sources that seem contradictory.&nbsp;And thirdly, we again invite you to consider the lines of influence that may underlie the information and the motives of the one publishing or sharing information and register this perception with the heart.&nbsp;

Lastly, we invite you to compassion with your learning process and with the communication processes of your culture and the other selves that contribute information that you receive. It seems that it is easy to judge another based on a perceived attempt at exploitation or deception, manipulation or misrepresentation, but having love present is a valuable ally in the navigation of this labyrinth that your peoples collectively impose upon self and other self.&nbsp;

This topic and question seems to us to be a very deep one and may bear fruit in further investigation and inquiry at a later time. We thank you for inviting us to share our perspective on this difficult and important skill and process of inquiry at this time. We now take our leave from this circle in gratitude.&nbsp;We are those of Q’uo. Adonai. ☥

* * *

- 
[Q'uo via Liestman: November 4, 2024](https://har.center/2021-11-04/17/quo-on-the-journey-of-self-discovery)
