---
title: TBD
group_question: TBD
introduction: TBD
categories:
- TBD
---

We are known to you as Q'uo. We are now with this instrument. We are taking a moment to steady the energies and deepen the state of the instrument. We have come to join with your circle once again to share a few words and spend an evening, as you call it, enjoying the time together as brothers and sisters. As always, we ask that the greatest effort be taken not to ascribe a special authority to the words that we say, for your discernment on these matters, on these words, is of the utmost importance. And it is oh so important that one does not simply accept what we say as fact, but consider and weigh the meaning, whether this be heard or read after the fact. We greet you all in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator. As you may have noticed, there is a changing season afoot. And with these changing tides comes a change, a rumble deep inside of your being, of your core. As you resonate, locked in a mutual vibration with the planet, as it shifts and transitions into the next season, your peoples have accurately assessed that the alignments with your star, which you call equinoxes and solstices, mark the energetic shift in the seasons. And so, as you must surely feel the excitement that this changing season brings, so does the planet feel this excitement reverberated through it. We come to you tonight to speak about the many faces of love. As you have gone through life, you have seen some of these, you have caught glimpses of others, you have maybe begun, and we stress begun, to understand what love is, or what it can be. You may have ideas about what it should be, but we assure you, your understandings are paltry at best. What you think love is, is far from an accurate picture. For it is something that cannot be measured, it is something that you cannot say that it should and should not be. There are facets of it that can apparently be measured, but we assure you, this is a fool's errand. For, in your state, in your existence, it is unknowable. But, the love, it can be felt. It can be felt more than it can be seen. One knows when one is being showered with love from another. It is difficult to put into words what that feeling is, but you both know it, and are aware of it, and can grow that feeling, flesh it out. You can choose to experience it, and share it, in each moment. Some of you have a greater difficulty receiving love than others. And for some, this is their great lesson in this life, is how to be loved by others. For others, it is the giving of love that is the great lesson. And for some, who have chosen to dive head first into this incarnation, both facets, giving and receiving of love, are your lesson. When you look around, you see so much misery. You see people like yourselves, who are going through life without any real goals, without a mission, so to speak. But yet, everyone thinks that they understand life, and that their understanding is the correct understanding. Yet, this cannot be the case. For, if everyone is correct, and yet everyone's ideas are different, then no one is correct. Thus, you see, the situation that we have laid out, which is quite simple, is one of the great difficulties in life. For, you cannot know who is right, and who is wrong. And as a matter of fact, these concepts are largely a waste of time. All you can do is look into each other's eyes, and know and feel the love that radiates back, from person to person. Work on this. Learn to observe without judgment. Learn to live a life where love comes before all else. For, there is nothing else other than love. And everything you have told yourself that you are living for, other than love, is just a distraction. We understand that this might be a heavy concept, so to speak. But, rest assured that when you die, this becomes very clear to you. That the time you have spent in this lifetime, thinking about things such as paying taxes, earning income, making sure you've paid for your car insurance, these are all things that you will regret the time that you have spent toiling and allowing to occupy your mind. There is a nearly unimaginable number of things in which people on this planet spend their time allowing to occupy their minds. It is almost unbelievable the extent and the complexity of the systems in which you participate in. You all are aware of this, and thus, we are preaching to the choir, so to speak. But, it truly is a sophisticated life you all live. And we cannot stress to you enough the importance of getting back to the basics. The importance of taking the time to look into someone else's eyes and understand that they are working just as hard as you are at living and going through this life. And yet, they may have ideas about you, and you may have ideas about them, and none of it matters. Unless the effort is put in to understand them and to love them. To know that their life is just as valuable as yours, and that all of you have come from the same place and are going to the same place. There is a beauty in this knowledge. And yet, this simple fact of a shared origin and a shared destination is one of the most overlooked facts of life. One in which, if you take the time to appreciate, everything becomes simpler. Life has enormous meaning, and yet, an elegant simplicity. It may seem that you are sharing your love with someone, that you are loving them, when in reality, there are many conditions. For, if a person does not do what you think is right, and your feelings for them change, that is, by definition, a conditional love. It is when the work has been put in to accept them unconditionally, as they are and as they come, that the love flows. And this takes effort. It does not come easy. And as a matter of fact, it is quite difficult. There are many separations that exist between all of you. Many layers to peel back, to penetrate. It can be of great value to consider that a flower puts enormous work into being beautiful. It smells nice. Most entities appreciate it for what it is. It has put enormous work into its being, and it does what it does, even if there is no one or anything to observe it for. Its goal in life is to radiate that beauty, to die, and to do it again. It exists, as we said, whether or not anyone has noticed just how beautiful it is. There is a lesson here, a lesson in which there is great work to strive to be like the flower, to let your beauty and your love radiate without a thought, without a concern for what others think. For you may find that as you attempt to love and express joy, and to lock eyes with other people and see them for who they are, you will encounter many roadblocks, much judgment. For this can be something that makes people uncomfortable. For in seeing someone express their love, they see themselves mirrored in this action. And it is when one incidentally acts as a mirror, that they open themselves to judgment. The mirroring effect is most prominent when one is not synchronized with others. Or when there is a desynchronization, people take note, they look, they wonder, they are aware of the shift, the differences in energy between the two, they take notice, it draws their attention. You are all familiar with this phenomenon, but yet, we mention it to shed some light. For it is in this mirroring where the great work is done, the great work of loving one another in a non-judgmental scenario or situation, and exchanging love. You may find yourselves in very different places, doing very different things, holding very different beliefs, and yet none of this prohibits you from being able to lock eyes with that person, and to share your love with them, or recognize them as a perfect part of this creation. And in return, they may offer you the same type of understanding and appreciation as you offer them. Consider that each person is their own type of flower. They may be at a different stage in their growth, they may have already bloomed, they may be just a seedling, barely having sprouted its first two leaves. Everyone has their own time. You may not live long enough to see that time manifest, but rest assured, everyone has their own time. Their time to be beautiful, to be loved, and to love wholeheartedly. Your culture, as we have mentioned, is very common to attempt to measure love, to put a price on it even. It is understood in this way, that love can be traded for money, but we assure you, this is not so. It cannot be done. This is not what love really is for. It cannot be measured, it cannot be quantified, it cannot be bought. In your lifetime you may begin to develop the faintest inkling of what true love is, and yet, if this is so, all of the time spent working to that is worth it. To have just the faintest inkling of a feeling of real, true love is worth every lifetime that one might spend to unearth and refine it. What we can say is, take a moment, now or afterwards, to consider Consider something that you have loved dearly, and then ask yourself, why? Why do you think this? Why have you felt this way? You may be able to generate a list, a list of items, a list of reasons why. If you take this list and you boil it down to its core, you may find that you are closer, closer to an understanding of love. Of your motivations for loving, of why, although your culture that you exist in is so mixed between positive and negative concepts, but yet, love plays such a central part in all of it. There are many things, many reasons that people tell themselves why they love someone or something, but the real reason cannot be put into words. Part of this stems from the fact that the love that the creator provides, that it feels, that it felt that led it to create this universe and establish these systems in which you currently enjoy, is ineffable from your current perspective. We have only begun to catch more than a glimpse of the meaning of this and an understanding of this, as we share in it too, as it serves as the driving force for us to reach out to another planet, as we have done now and in the past. To share our love and our form of service, as we feel the love inside of us that the creator felt inside of them. We reach out to you having almost nothing in common, and yet, having everything in common. We encourage you to extend your hand out, metaphorically, to another, realizing that although you may have nothing in common with them, you have everything in common with them, as we have done to you. There is so much that could be said, and yet, we have been taking steps to ensure brevity. We have the principle known to you as Kuo. We would like to end our message now and open the door for any questions that any of you may have. I have a question. Are there any flowers where you are? We are the principle known to you as Kuo. We understand your question, my sister. Believe it or not, the answer to this question is somewhat complex. We occupy several places at once, so to speak, and at any given time, we may enter a realm where, if we choose, we could be surrounded by an infinite number and variety of flowers. We are surrounded by what you call flowers, and by having one foot in this realm at all times, it could be said that we are surrounded by flowers at all times. As you can imagine, this is quite wonderful, and yet, we choose to spend the bulk of our energy serving. But, we do very often come back to this place that we mentioned and revel in the beauty generated by our own minds and the interplay between our minds and the universe. For when we desire such a thing as a flower, the universe offers us an infinite number of flowers to observe, and it becomes a reciprocal relationship. We offer this snapshot, if you will, of our existence, since you asked, and I think it's worth mentioning that life is oh so grand. Thank you. Have we answered your question to your satisfaction, my sister? Very much so. We are the principal, known to you all as Kuo, and we would once again open the floor to questions. I have a question, another question. Sometimes when I'm praying, I wonder whether I should ask directly to the universe for what I want, or direct healing energy from my own self as an entity within the universe, or if I should ask another, like that I should ask God, or the creator himself, herself, whatever, to do this for me. Like, there has to be an intermediary between these forces that are accessible, or whether they're directly accessible to each of us. I was wondering if you might speak to that, whether you should ask an intermediary, or if we should trust in our own abilities to access these things directly. We are the principal, known to you as Kuo, and we understand your query, my sister. We will say the question that you have asked is actually quite vast, and there are many facets to the answer. We will do our best to give you a broad overlay with which you may ask additional questions. As this circle knows, as we have mentioned in the past, there is enormous value in reaching out to the presences that surround you, for there are many. Some of these are known to your circle, and to your peoples, as guides, or even angels, or your higher self, and so on and so forth. There is a vast, infinite ecosystem that surrounds you. There are many entities that are quite interested in aiding you in any way that they can. However, they are only able to assist via their own free will, if requested. It is the request that enables, opens the door to, as this instrument likes to describe, strings being pulled. Strings that would be very difficult in your current situation, as an incarnate being, to pull. It does not matter, necessarily, who or what you are praying to, for. It is the act of praying, the reaching out, that these presences are able to act on and work with. For each person, in each culture, has their own understanding of who and what they are praying to. And it is the calling that matters, not the understanding. With that being said, it is also possible, as you have suggested, to use the powers within your own being that you have as a co-creator, to exact change in many ways, both physical and metaphysically, as you call it. However, if on the topic of healing, as the question was asked, as this circle is somewhat familiar, healing is a complex matter. And it is difficult for one to start from scratch, unless they have the gift preloaded in for their incarnation to be a healer. It is quite possible to learn the ways of healing, however, it takes effort. And, for most people, it requires that one ascribe to one of the many systems in which your peoples have discovered and have assembled. There are many systems within your culture that are available to you, that offer a pathway to becoming a healer. In the state in which most of you find yourselves, it is most efficacious to simply reach out and ask for help. If it be healing you are seeking, it is the asking that is most valuable. If one feels the calling and the desire to share energy that they have with one another, with the hope of healing them, then, by all means, share that energy. And, you may find that it has actually done some good. But, it is most efficacious to combine an action such as this with a call for help. For it is the unifying force of the presences that surround you, a calling put forth by you, and a desire to aid that is much more powerful than any of these things mentioned on their own. It is also worth mentioning that prayer is an art that can be refined. And, everything and anything that you desire, whether it be on a conscious or subconscious level, has the potential to be granted to you. And, it is in refining these desires that the door is open to ever more powerful prayer. It is through prayer that one can refine their will. It is the refining of the will that will serve you most excellently as you seek to serve and proceed through life. And, prayer is a most efficacious path in refining the will. We would end this by saying that do not hesitate to reach out for anything and everything. For each time you do this, you refine the connection that you have with the presences that surround you. And, over time, you may find when one communicates with what we would refer to as the inner planes, you become a beacon of light. And, you attract more and more entities and presences that are able to aid you. We would ask, my sister, if we have answered your question to your satisfaction. You have. Thank you. We are the principle known to you as Guru. And, we once again open the floor to questions. We are known to you as Kuo. And, it would seem that the questions have run dry this evening. And, to wrap things up, we would like to tell you that we have enjoyed this experience at least as much as you have. We would like to remind you, do not hesitate to revel in the love that you have for one another. Do not hesitate to look each other in the eyes and know that there is love looking back at you. You are all working together to construct a temple of seeking and of love. You strengthen each other's seeking. You strengthen each other's desire to love. Most of the time, you do not know this, and yet, each of you serve each other so well. Trust that each of you loves the other. We leave you now in the love, in the glorious light of the One Infinite Creator. I don't I?
