---
title: Q'uo on Letting Go of the Old World
group_question: How should we relate to fear of the imminent unknown? How can we be useful while navigating this tension and uncertainty without being reactive?
introduction: |
  Q'uo speaks to the Richmond circle at a moment of heightened tension and fear on the planet and in the members' lives. Encouraging a vibratory, harmonic rubric for thinking about meditation and service to the planet, they seek to help us prepare for and open to the grief we will experience as we deal with the loss and change to come. Our usefulness to the planet and each other lies chiefly not in our ability to another's bidding but rather in feeling into the needs being expressed to the Creator and disciplining our personalities to transmit the full run of the Creator's love in response, through the breakage and mending it appears to engender. As we connect with our inner light to which we are entitled as sub-sub-Logoi and relax our fearful reactions, we begin to understand ourselves sufficiently to step outside the confines of what this society thinks is safe and usher in the new age.
categories:
  - Topics/Safety
  - Topics/Meditation
  - Topics/Projection
  - Topics/Harvest and Graduation
  - Topics/Polarization
  - Circles/Richmond Meditation Circle
  - Instruments/Jeremy
---

_(Jeremy channeling)_

**I am Q'uo**. Greetings, brothers and sisters, in the light of our Radiant One. It is our pleasure and privilege this day to speak to you at a moment of the turning of the tide. You must feel yourselves very much the nervousness that accompanies the night before a big trip, wouldn't you say? 

We wish to acknowledge your feelings, your _tumult_, as this instrument said earlier to his wife, and bless it. It is not the place of we of Q'uo, this principle so observant of your sphere, to impose ourselves and our approaches upon you. We are your older brothers and sisters, perhaps. We bring blessings of many of those complexes of the Confederation whom you have come to know. But we stand ready only to bathe our beautiful comrades in spirit with the love and light of which, we should remark, we are only conduits. Yes, my friends, we, too, are channels. We, too, are instruments. And if we were to interfere, would we not set a poor example for our little siblings whom we hold in such high and tender regard and who are on the cusp of stepping into adulthood as a planet? 

So heed our words when we say: discard what pulls you astray from the path you—-each of you--have been walking. We speak not to strangers here. We know each of you, regardless of where on the path you are, you are waving at each other, and as such, you are one party on a grand trip--a fellowship, we might even say. And you must dedicate your efforts in this fellowship to the end in your hearts, each of your individual hearts, for there is where the connection to the group heart is made.

If you cannot abide the concepts and thoughts we share, of what use are they? It is not even a matter of becoming a burden to you as you walk. It is merely a matter of what is useful. You care about what is useful, and you work with it to bring out from within the object of usefulness those faculties that you need on the path. What more reason would we have to share than because something is useful? So, forget truth in this regard. Forget distortion, necessarily, for you are the tuning fork for your own self, for your own self, and you decide what is sharp, what is flat, what is right on the beam, and this is how it should be. 

You will have this experience that we of Q'uo do one day, brothers and sisters. You, with your brothers and sisters, will reach out to another planet and patiently, with such diligent care, wait until the call is made. And rejoicing doesn't even begin to describe it: the feeling of a new, fresh node of the Creator, coming alive as the flowers in the spring all bloom simultaneously, and the sun rises upon a new, truly a new planet. So, with those poetic intimations, we simply say: rest easy. You may evaluate our words at a later moment. Bask in the warmth and circulate the energy clockwise as we begin to discuss your concern regarding fear, chaos, safety, and those elements of human life that seem so fragile and yet are so useful and necessary to the fruition of our one infinite Creator's plan. 

As you sit here on this rainy day, the tides of change wash over you, even in your peaceful repose. This sortie with your friends on this planet and your friends from other planets is, we can imagine well, a welcome retreat from the buffeting winds of that which is to come. It is not terribly long ago that we had to reassure the seekers who sought our information that harvest was near. Harvest may be an event in the near or distant future, but the precursors to it: can anyone doubt any longer? The institutions around which you build a self: discredited and crumbling. The leadership you crave as a people is rotten; the modes of life, their eternal seeming vibrancy, dimming. We do not mean to alarm you. We mean to tap into this feeling so that we may share it with you. We may share some of this worry and thereby speak to it more directly and knowledgeably. 

This is once again, my friends, a way we are modeling, or at least attempting to model, how you might relate to those who have fear in your life as this instrument does, as many of you do. Working with those whom you have recognized are entertaining fear in the party of thought forms that their mind/body/spirit complex is made up of is the crucial first step to relating to fear within yourself. Because in third density, as our brothers and sisters of Monka have stated many times,[^1] projection is the name of the game. Manifestation is how we serve the Creator: by making what was implicit and potential, concrete and actual, be it a pleasant vision cast upon the screen or a dark and foreboding view of what one might greet next.

You have many parts within you. This is what we mean when we describe you, and we mean "you" at every level, as a _complex_. It is true that you will not simply tinker with this system of relating parts and save the day. This is why we stress meditation, because it works harmonically and vibratorily with that which you find within. And you may then exercise this skill of sympathetic resonance in the outer experience where, by the very nature of the illusion, you will recognize the standing wave before you, and reaching through this wave touch into the underlining reality that the illusion's face is distorting. You do this work with others so that you can do it within, but you do it within so that, through others, you can collectively experience the answer to the riddle. We hope we are not being too metaphorical and that you can feel into what we are attempting to convey with these crude and clumsy words this instrument affords us. 

Now, it is very much the case that when you observe a lack of comfort in your life, a tension, as our brother Max put it, that there will be a feeling that this is not right. There is a feeling that something must be fixed because something in the glorious creation of our Father is broken. Brokenness is an interesting concept, and it is one that we greet the one known as Elliot, who corresponded with this instrument earlier this morning, and affirm the insight he shared.[^2] For his source is correct that love is the great breaker, but also the great mender in the sense that transformation subsumes the entire process. This transformation, to be in the midst of it, will feel like a out-of-band experience from what life "ought to be." 

We use that phrasing because naturally, from our point of view, to remark upon the propriety of any point in your evolution as being faulty or untoward is akin to you giving up on a young toddler who falls down while learning to walk. It is absurd to collapse the Creator's potential in such a flippant way, is it not? And we would offer that you look upon yourselves this way: as toddlers making your way across the room to the other parent. Across the room to the other parent. Are they really serving you if they catch you every single time? 

You must become accepting, my brothers and sisters, accepting of loss, for there is much that you have accrued to yourself that is not you, that lies to you and tells you you are safe, and you have believed it. This is not an error any more than your parents were in error when they told you that you were perfectly safe and nothing would ever happen to you. They do not know the future. They know quite well how precarious the world is always, and that what has been built out of convention and law and simple goodwill is valuable in precise proportion to its delicateness and fragility. We have remarked about safety before, and we would point the dedicated seeker to those words, for they reflected a kind of ambiguity that we would impress upon you today when it comes to an appraisal of safety.[^3] We would impress upon you today when it comes to an appraisal of your agency in this illusion, this dimming of the lights in the hall of third density earth.

Say goodbye while you can. Love this planet enough to grieve what is going to be bid adieu. The parent sheds a tear when the young child's voice deepens and he begins to exhibit the signs of manhood, and time marches on, and one has to learn to relate to a new version of that precious child. In your hearts, give this civilization that has made all of this possible, for all of its tragedy, deceit, and illusory baubles, bless it and thank it. Let it know that it did what it had to do. And now, you can turn your back and look towards the rising sun.

When you look at it this way, my friends, where precisely do you locate the fear? Where does this feeling find itself in your seven note scale that you carry about as the sign of your Logoic heritage? Where? This will inform you of what you still have not been able to let go of and where you must stop and give yourself a chance to grieve. For this is the way of manifestation: that the Creator's love finds focus in a containing moment, a thought form that expresses itself so brilliantly and crystalline in its character that it pulls an entire people into its orbit, but then, my friends, fades; the animating essence having left, much as Ra describes those pyramids.[^4] And now, looking at the husk of that love, who would not feel forlorn? Who would not feel forlorn? 

You are entities designed to feel sorrow. And in this, you are just like us, for we too feel sorrow. Let it be a sweet sorrow. Let it be a sorrow that you do not distract yourself from, attempting to escape the depth of feeling that would lay plain how shallow so much of what we entertain ourselves with is.

There is a role for you to play when you have balanced in this way; a role that does not end with the pole shift of the third density yellow ray matrix, and we speak metaphorically: the loss of the position that gave you a sense that your existence had meaning and usefulness in ways that you could observe directly, and truthfully, that provided ingress to those who wanted to use, for they go hand in hand. Do you seek to be useful as an instrument to your fellow man? Is that the proper relationship? Whose instrument are you? To whom should you seek to be useful? We leave this question with you, for we know it will prompt your coming of age when you finally admit that your importance, that your primacy as a mind/body/spirit complex, does not derive from anything that the yellow ray matrix, as it wobbles and spins, can ever bestow upon you. 

We would like at this moment to pause our remarks, to bring about the coda to our little sonata, and make certain that what we have shared with you meets the rigorous questions you have posed by allowing for a follow-up or two. Are there any comments or questions or remarks you might make? We are those of Q'uo.

**Max**: Q'uo, I wanted to ask: this inner light that is available to us in the now; what keeps it concealed from us?

We are Q'uo, and we are aware of your question and are touched by its poignance and simplicity. We will endeavor to not go over long and meet your mind where you are at. It is quite straightforward, my friend: the inner light is hidden _not_. It is not sought, and that is what obscures it. It is nothing more than that. 

Now, we do not mean to, as this instrument would put it, "victim blame," for you formed conscious selves in an environment that screams to you to look outside for your safety and survival and status and protection. It would be remarkable in the extreme were you to not struggle with this inner mystery when you have been indoctrinated into an ontology that says only what is visible and tangible and verifiable by public consensus is worthy of your attention. And, we would add, it is precisely because of this social consensus, so numbing to the inner light and the senses that would register it, that you came to this planet. And you threw yourself into this pool of novocaine, shall we say: to wean yourself off and learn thereby the value of the light: that when it shines, my brother, it will show you things that you deeply wish to see. However, it will also show you things that you find hateful, fearful, and repugnant. 

This is what it means to polarize towards service-to-others, to be able to gaze upon these things with the white light emanating from the Creator through you and not flinch. This is why we direct you to the words we have spoken on safety some years past through this instrument and others, my brother,[^3] because it is drilled into children in this society to be safe and secure and to not stray into danger. And it becomes a kind of ethos that is either rebelled against or taken to heart so deeply, so totally, that transformation becomes a danger. The light will keep shining regardless of where you are in the path.

And so, as you bask in that light, having found it, you will find yourself letting go of the guard rails and taking those tentative steps forward towards the other parent we described earlier. And you must let your desire and your will guide you, not the concepts that, through no fault of your own, were programmed into you. It will be like taking off a heavy coat that was quite comforting but has become so tattered, so stiff, that you cannot abide this constricting safety one moment longer. Indeed, it is the light within that will be speaking this to you; you will not need us of Q'uo to affirm its truth value. 

This is where the broken record will skip again, my brother. In meditation, the stakes are lowered. You are not, in fact, on the cusp of a great turning of the age or in the midst of a alienating step into the unknown. You simply sit. You simply feel. You simply notice, and in this observation an inner landscape begins to be illuminated. 

It's not always pleasant; it is many times a bit frustrating. So be it. Be frustrated. Be fearful. Be upset. So what? To be is the great mystery. And if that is the case--if we speak the truth to you, my brother--then why quibble on the momentary condition of it? It is part of a continuity of consciousness of which you are the inheritor across distances of time and space so vast you would pass out if we tried to explain it; we can barely contain it. 

And it's not necessary to contain it. This is the advantage of being a channel of the Creator, a conduit: that it is not yours, and therefore it is freely given. And when you begin to give that light that you feel within to others because you have valued yourself enough to patiently develop it, then my friend, you will have your proof, and no one will be able to convince you of it, and no one will be able to convince you of it or convince you against it. 

May we speak any further to this topic, my brother? We are those of Q'uo.

**Max**: I appreciate your response. Thank you. 

We are so grateful for you, my brother. You always bring such a fresh perspective and a penetrating query that challenges us and makes us consult our inner light. May we have any other questions from this group? We are those of Q'uo.

_(No responses)_

Very well, my brothers and sisters. This instrument is very grateful to have your camaraderie today for this was a hard day for him, and much of what we have said applies directly and unwaveringly to him.[^5] And we hope that he will take the message seriously as our most loving gift we can give. 

We are always available to answer any questions you may have. In your meditations, if it is noisy in that head of yours, if it feels uncomfortable and the patience that you seek to express runs out, do not deal with this solely on your own. You must learn to call for help. You must learn: none of us got here alone and we don't get out of this alone either--not into fourth density, my friends. And once you and this planet have arrived there, we will greet you in the way that we have always wished to; the way your UFO chasers and spiritual seekers have always wanted: to touch, to look in each other's eyes, and to know that the great chain of being is not formed with links of iron or gold, but with hands grasping across the infinite expanse of this infinite creation. 

I am Q'uo. I am now ready to leave this instrument and this circle. We bid you a good evening in the love and in the light of our one infinite creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai. ☥

---

[^1]: [Monka via Weiland: January 15, 2023](https://har.center/2023-01-15/richmond/ccp/004/monka-on-power-and-community/)
[^2]: A friend of the instrument sent a channeled message the instrument had studied that discussed brokenness as a function of love; this resonated with him as he had grappled with the concept of brokenness a year ago.
[^3]: [Q'uo via Weiland et al: May 18, 2022](https://har.center/2022-05-18/colorado-springs/ci2/006/quo-on-the-spiritual-aspects-of-safety/)
[^4]: [Ra via Rueckert: Session 4, Question 6](https://www.lawofone.info/s/4#6)
[^5]: The instrument is concerned about the future of his software development with the rapid acceleration in the speed of artificial intelligence to deliver ever higher quality.